Giana Sisters S.E.
------------------
HDD & CD32 Version 1.1 - 13th August 2016

This is an unofficial hack of the original Great Giana Sisters
(published by Timewarp/Rainbow Arts in 1988) that replaces the entire visual 
aspect of the game!

Featuring over 200 new graphics that are either completely new designs or 
remastered originals, while Giana and some enemies are directly inspired from 
the 2009 DS version.

Besides the new in-game graphics, new palettes were created for each level,
minor level editing was done -mostly for cosmetic reasons- and the main
menu screen map was altered to reflect the new title name. On top of that,
many of the old sound fx were replaced as well.

Finally the game has a new logo, splash screen and icon (NewIcons need to be
installed) plus a new intro sequence ported from the DS version.
 
Both HDD & CD32 versions are based on the whdload v1.5 patch of the original
game by Harry & Psygore.

Giana Sisters S.E. V1.0 made by Tsak & Earok, Reimagine games, 2016 
Splash screen by LisVanPiece: http://lisvanpiece.deviantart.com/

The home of Reimagine games is http://pixelglass.org

Black Forest Games were kind enough to allow our project on a non-
commercial basis, giving us permission to use the Giana name
and DS assets. They currently publish several Giana Sisters titles 
on Steam, which include:

Giana Sisters 2D.
http://store.steampowered.com/app/350770/

Giana Sisters: Twisted Dreams.
http://store.steampowered.com/app/223220/

Giana Sisters: Twisted Dreams - Rise of the Owlverlord.
http://store.steampowered.com/app/246960/


Releases
--------
13th August 2016
1.1 HDD version - Fixed version of the intro (HDD edition), updated readme.

8th August 2016
1.0 - Initial release.


Requirements
------------
This version is built on the WHDLoad disk image of the original 1988 version and 
will run on any 68k Amiga with:

- 512 KB of free (not total) ChipMem.
- Optionally, +890KB to preload.
- 2.0 Kickstart.
- 2.3 MB of free HD space (for the HDD version).

The Intro is designed to playback on any Amiga with at least 1MB RAM (will be 
skipped if the requirements are not met) and will auto detect your chipset. If
you have an AGA chipset the Intro will display in 256 colours, otherwise it 
will display in EHB 64 colours.


Playing with a Joystick and Keyboard
------------------------------------
Walk: Left and Right.
Jump: Up (or Joystick Fire 2. Pressing Joystick Fire 2 will disable Up.)
Fire: Fire 1.
Hourglass:  Down, Left, Fire (Quickly).
Bomb: Down, Right, Fire (Quickly).
Quit to WB: * on the numeric Keypad.


Playing with a CD32 pad
-----------------------
Walk: Left and Right.
Jump: Up (Or Blue Button. Pressing Blue Button will disable Up.)
Fire: Red Button.
Hourglass: Down, Left, Red Button (Quickly).
Bomb: Down, Right, Red Button (Quickly).
Pause: Play Button.
Quit to WB: Hold Forward+Reverse+Play simultaneously for at least one second.


Power ups
---------
POTION
The Potion morphs Giana into her punk counterpart, giving her the strength to
bash bricks open with her head.

BUBBLE WAND
Press Fire to shoot a Bubble.

ELECTRIC WAND
Press Fire to shoot a Bouncing Bubble. This will bounce off walls repeatedly 
until it hits an enemy, or you collect it again.

HOMING WAND
Press Fire to shoot a Homing Bubble. This will seek-and-destroy the closest 
vulnerable enemy, even through walls!

FIREPROOF PENDANT
Collecting this item will allow you to walk through flames unharmed!

HOURGLASS
This will temporarily freeze all enemies on the stage! Quickly press Down, Left 
and then Fire to activate.

BOMB
This will destroy all vulnerable enemies on screen! Quickly press Down, Right
and then Fire to activate.

1UP
Gain an extra life!


Credits
--------
Art & Audio: Tsak.
Hacking & Intro programming: Earok.
Splash Screen: LisVanPiece.
WHDLoad Slave: Harry & Psygore, WHDLoad: Wepl.
ADF version (Intro and Main game adfs): Galahad and Scoopex


Thanx
-----

Timewarp/Rainbow arts for the original game
- Armin Gessert for the original C64 version programming.
- Chris Huelsbeck for the original C64 version music.
- Manfred Trenz for the original C64 and Amiga version graphics.
- Thomas Hertzler for the Amiga version programming.
- Thomas Lopatic for the Amiga version music.

Black Forest Games for Giana 2D, permission to use the Giana name
and DS assets.

Everyone else for their support:
Commodore Amiga Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/groups/CommodoreAmiga/
English Amiga Board: http://eab.abime.net
Indie Retro News: http://www.indieretronews.com/
Scoopex: http://scoopex1988.org/


Known Bugs and Glitches
-----------------------

-WHDLoad version 18.2 is bundled, but we've had reports that this version does
not work with the game in all circumstances.

If you have problems launching Giana, please delete the included WHDLoad
executable and simply use your previously installed WHDLoad version. 18.1 is 
confirmed to work fine.

-We have had some reports of unreliability on Amiga 600 machines with the ADF
version. At this stage we're unsure of whether or not this relates to the
ACA-620 Accelerator, or Gotek drives.

-The WHDLoad trainer ('[' key on numpad) has also been reported to cause 
issues.

-We've had a report that Master System controllers will cause the game to 
freeze. We're not totally sure of the exact circumstances or even if this bug
was present in the original game, but if the game freezes for you and you have 
a Master System control, please try alternative controllers.

-Minor issue with using two button pads on CD32 and WB editions. If you use 
the second button to jump, it disables up as a means of jumping (in order to
stop accidental jumps) but also  breaks the ability to enter high scores 
correctly.

-The intro is Chip Ram heavy. Although this version of the intro should not
cause a guru meditation if there isn't enough free Chip Ram, you may need to 
minimise Chip Ram usage before launching the intro in order to watch it.


All bugs below this point are from the original game:

-If in game the left mouse button (or port 1 joy fire) is pressed,
it quits to title screen. Then if a new game is started, the game auto
quits back to title screen again making it impossible to begin.
The only solution here is to reset or quit to wb and start anew.
For the record, the game features no other button or way to
quit to title screen. This bug is present in some, but not all,
originally released versions of the game (SPS #2945 has this issue).

-When Bees fly off the left part of the screen there may be a glitchy flash
for a split second.

-At the start of every level if you move Giana to the left, against the
edge of the screen (granted there is nothing blocking her way) then her
sprite may be glitched inside the ground. This is not game breaking.
Just jump and move away.

-Hitting a wall or a star tile and then quickly hitting another one may result
in a small glitch (part of the wall animation f.e. may remain on screen).
This is quite minor and rare to happen though.

-At stage 22 the very first star tile you see may continue spinning after
hitting it. 

-Also at stage 22, the first bonus item you find sometimes disappears.

-At the final crystal stage, there is a secret area that can be accessed
beyond the crystal room (hint*hint) which contains level data (platforms and
grounds to walk on) but no visible gfx. This part of the level leads at a
dead end and if you take this route the game cannot be finished (i.e. you'll
be stuck in the dark forever until you run out of time and die!).
This is not actually a bug (more like a level design leftover perhaps).

-To finish the game you need to touch the ground where the final crystal lies,
not the crystal itself.



Original WHDload patch readme follows (some entries may no longer apply):
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Short : HD-Installer for Great Giana Sisters
Type : game/patch
Author : Harry & Psygore (psygore@whdload.de)


That patch applies to Great Giana Sisters (c) 1988 Timewarp/Rainbow Arts.


Before you can use this you must install WHDLoad 17+ and RawDIC from
the whdload package. The tools must be available via the path.


You need 512 KB ChipMem (+890 KB OtherMem for preload option).


Version 1.0-1.1 (28.06.98) by Harry:
 - Fixed: Gfx-problem with the flame.
 - Ask for highscoresave removed, highscore will be always
   saved (except you used the trainer).
 - Quit with '*' (PrtSc)

Version 1.2 (09.04.06) by Psygore:
 - Slave updated for whdload v14+
 - RawDIC imager used
 - Color/NewIcons (created by me), RomIcon and BoxIcon included
 - Install script updated
 - Stack moved in fastmem
 - Interrupt doesn't freeze if cpu is not enough fast
 - Snoopbug removed
 - 2nd button supported (to jump)
 - Empty dbf loop patched (music replay)

Version 1.3 (31.10.06) by Psygore:
 - 2nd button for jumping fixed when you press left direction

Version 1.4 (27.09.12) by Psygore:
 - Supports SPS #2945
 - Install script updated

Version 1.5 (02.12.12) by Psygore:
 - CD32 joypad supported
 - Set CUSTOM1=1 to disable up direction (jump) when 2nd button is pressed


CD32 joypad buttons (in game):
- PLAY : pause
- FORWARD+REVERSE+PLAY (pressed at least 1 sec.) : quit


BoxIcon has been made from boxscans (http://hol.abime.net/2793).


Default quitkey is numerical *. Change it with the QUITKEY-tooltype.
Default trainer key is numerical ] (quitkey-2). Pressing it toggles the
life loss.

Note:   Once you used the trainer the game wont save the highscores
          this runtime anymore.


For problems contact:	psygore@whdload.de
Full whdload package:	aminet:dev/misc/whdload#?.lha
Other installs:		http://www.whdload.de/

Harry in June 1998.
Psygore in April 2006, October 2006, September, December 2012.
